hi everybody yes so I'm Jed Dieterich
I'm Sean Darcy trading directed
latreille dusk been there for a couple
years before that I was a soft
commodities derivatives firm seven years
doing that before finally burning out of
finance for good yeah and I'm GM a
business development at the trade desk
fancy way of saying I'm a sales guy at
the trade desk I'm the dumb one in this
relationship as you'll find out soon and
so what we're going to be talking about
today is a accelerated planning and kind
of how media planning happens in ways
we've seen it work better working with
some of our partners so how many people
in this room just by show of hands have
planned media in the past or today I'm
so a good amount of people how many of
you feel like you've had proper data in
front of you while building the plan to
set yourself off in a good place few
people cool so that's what we're going
to work on to that cool so a lot of the
time the media process is fragmented a
lot of the time the data comes kind of
after the plan so in post campaign wrap
up reporting mid campaign insights and
then we can only use what we see an RFP
process right to kind of take a guess at
what's going to work best totally and
what we've been trying to work on it the
trade desk is getting those insights
into the planners hands before they even
put an impression in market exactly so
one way when I receive as a media buyer
a plan coming from an RFP will start
with a big audience it would be the gray
box up there the universe and we say
target males 18 to 35 then through
optimization I can start to see some of
these users who go on to convert who
have that characteristic male 18 to 35
we trim around that waist you see up
there where we're not saying those you
just go on to convert the problem is I
don't have any insight into the users
who don't fall into that original
targeting that Mel 18 to 35 segment so
there's potentially up to eighty ninety
percent of users who I don't get to
collect any information on during the
optimization process
so one way that a lot of DSPs and
different companies have solved for that
issue is introducing learn budgets and
so it's a really great way and a great
idea to basically put a bunch of media
and market a lot of the time they
allocate a certain amount of budget
certain amount of time for the campaign
to actually scan all of what's out there
to try to find all of those pockets
right to not do what Shawn talked about
and kind of isolate a bucket that we
have to work with them so so hopefully
with that you get your bucket you also
get the other pieces that you weren't
necessarily planning to find but are
there but part of the trouble is you
also have to buy the whole blue area
right imagine me walking up in
introducing myself to everyone in the
room saying will you open an account
will you open an account it takes a lot
of time and it takes a lot of money
before we even get to these
optimizations if we can start breaking
them out and targeting exactly who we
want to in order to put this plan into
put into a good spot we're trying to
shift those learnings to the beginning
yeah so what we're really really talking
about is taking the process of the learn
budgets and scanning everything and
learning keeping that back into the
planning process so we've worked with a
lot of fantastic agency partners to
really do that and to bring the kind of
data that we generate so much of in real
time into the planning process so that
without spending a single dollar without
putting a single impression and market
we've already generated the best
possible hypotheses that we can work
with them so that's what we're talking
about when we say accelerating on ramps
and and reducing learn budgets so we're
going to take a quick case study and
this will be a financial firm online
account openings we started by examining
first-party data that we collected along
with the agency that we worked with in
order to look at historical account
openings by date you'll see helps here
we'll see we have some trends that are
pretty clear Saturday in Sunday's we
have about half the amount of account
openings that we do monday through
friday but the one thing that like
really stands out here is what happened
on that huge spike date right there in
the middle those dates was the August
24th 25th and 26th and on those dates
there
is a huge crash in the Chinese markets
that led to a three-day sell-off that
was the worst off in the Dow Jones in
over three years so we wanted to take
those users who are really important
users that were likely to react to such
a big sell-off in the market and profile
them and find out what characteristics
they had in order to go and target those
users in the future right so these are
really valuable people we get a chance
to react or to see who reacts who are
opportunists who were very active people
we talked about this is a financial
service advertiser who's looking for
account openings well these are people
who take action or who going to be
really engaged so the other way we
looked at this was as compared to
typical account openings there for those
three days that Sean called out so the
bigger bars are the new the people who
are reacting to the sell-off and the
rest is the average from what we saw
across the rest of the campaign it's a
big thing to highlight here is if we
don't put the impressions in market and
a first day will where the users are
opening up those accounts if we wait
three days we've missed our opportunity
so it's super important to be very
targeted with our impressions
immediately when we start to see these
actions take place and remember this is
all happening before the campaign goes
live right so we saw this happen and we
analyzed it before and so we know next
time there's a huge event who it's going
to be that's going to react and we can
use that to target impressions and think
about how to message those people one
way we do that is by looking at their
paths to conversion so we're an
omni-channel DSP we see tremendous
volumes across all channels those you
know aren't just opportunities to buy
impressions they're also opportunities
to learn about people and learn about
their actions so one thing that we can
do is take that incremental audience
that sell off audience and segment it
within our DMP and then look at what are
the sites people are going to in this
case four hours before a conversion in
this case before an account opening and
that can become a site list or those can
become sites that we want to stray
private deals with so that next time
something like this happens we're at the
right place sure and if we actually take
a look at what these profiles look like
believe it or not people go to finance
sites before would they open up an
account for investing firm but we can
take a look at the site portfolio up
here we use those sites to go out and
negotiate deals use platform wat
statistics to get the right price point
for our agencies and we also look at the
third party data portfolio that goes
along with those users so we start to
see oh looks like there's my bankers in
the portfolio they might own a
rolls-royce or Porsche they're active
ETF traders these are super high
importance profile characteristics for
these users in the sell-off period which
kind of makes sense for their reacting
to a huge sell-off in the market these
are the most savvy investors and we're
going to go out and target them we can
also turn this model upside down so find
the lowest relevance sites in the lowest
relevant data segments in order to kind
of eliminate those blue areas that we
were talking about with the learn budget
where users don't go to our users who we
see on these sites do not go on and open
an account they also can turn the model
upside down and say what are the least
likely characteristics of a user who
does not go on and open up an account
for this for this advertiser so let's
start by blocking those let's start by
not targeting those sites and those
audiences right eliminate the waste
before we even put an impression in
market we can also do this by modeling
geographically down to the city and town
level so the area is in green on the
board those are the places that are most
relevant and what's common amongst them
is there right around financial hubs
they're actually not the cities where
New York Boston they're the area
surrounding the city's the suburbs of
the big financial hubs we can also take
the red dots on the map up there and
turn those into a block list at geo
level blocklist say in certain areas and
said a Wyoming
Idaho we're not going to have much luck
opening up accounts here let's block
them right from the very start last
thing I love talking about as IP
modeling we're in the US where we do see
IP ranges you can take a look and
basically do the same sort of relevance
score and say these are the companies
that people were in when they took
action and open accounts as compared to
the number of people that we see inside
that IP range there's an especially
evolved of people taking action so these
are actually some of the companies that
we saw in this case study sure and this
is a great hbu to be solution if you're
looking for what companies are going to
the page opening up these accounts we
can profile them against every company
in the United States in order to say
take these companies this is where
you're most likely to drive your success
can see united states senate up there
McQuarrie holding company there's a
couple financial institutes that make
sense but there's also a few places
where maybe we wouldn't have thought to
look in the first place nike profiled
really high during the spike period we
also saw paypal a couple health care
companies but it really combed through
the entire data set and put together the
best plan for us to start for the next
time that we saw a big sell-off like
this you have to wonder if those
senators knew about the sell-off before
it happened right yeah so at the end of
the day we saw this work right all that
happened before we launched any media
and then we launched and optimized so a
lot of that work would happen an auto
optimization a lot of that would happen
in a learn budget but we did it before
hand with the agency so some of the
results sure so well we implemented
these models and started targeting these
high-profile sites these high-profile
ip's their party data segments and Geo's
we started off on the far left we're
getting around fifteen percent of every
online converter had seen an impression
from the trade desk before they
converted over the course of time for
the next 90 days we brought that up to
75 percent of all users had seen an
impression
or converting and that's a part of the
story and the other part is that we
drove up the incremental volume of
conversions right so as we did that we
not only reach more of the right people
and more of the people who were
converting and hopefully drove higher
value actions but we also drove
incrementally a higher volume of account
openings so that's our story we wanted
to invite brian backup I'm for some Q&A
okay cool um so I'm a question if you
because we were having this discussion
Basu is do you guys see value in
unbeautiful on viewability yep I've been
told that there actually is value to
unmute impressions yeah I I I don't
think that once we see that an
impression was not viewed we don't see a
whole lot of value in it oh really so
you don't see I mean I ate at the end of
the day what we're doing is talking to
our agencies and their advertisers about
what their goals are and so if part of
their goals involves buying on viewed
impressions and then optimizing toward
those that are driving the performance
they're looking for some of them choose
to do that but more and more viewability
is table stakes and then we're talking
about performance not sure but some of
those unmute impressions actually feed
into these models that we're talking
about so well they may not have had the
desired impact with the delivered
impression we can still use that
impression delivered to someone who went
on and opened up an account and use it
to inform a look like model or site look
like model to give us knowledge about
who might go on and convert in the
future okay say that's interesting I
want to open up to questions couple
microphones
how you doing very interesting stuff
question for you your data seems to
point to a reactionary behavior is there
any have there been any instances where
you've been able to predict outcomes in
advance or seen any data that's leading
up to a point at which you can help one
of your clients sure so we can take this
model and slice in a number of ways in
this case we profiled the users who
reacted to the big sell-off so that the
next time that we see a big self we have
the audience targeting the site lists
the site block list so that we know
exactly where to put the median place
but we can segment the whole number or
the whole universe of converters maybe
we want to look at who converts at
lunchtime or who converts while the
market to open versus markets closed
what does a weekend converter look like
what does a weekday convert it look like
if you really wanted to you could get
down and say what does somebody in South
Dakota run them through the same models
and go out and have a specific plan to
go target South Dakota versus maybe New
York City I would imagine the two
profiles look entirely different but to
answer your question yes we can look at
this in a number of different ways in
order to profile what is deemed to be a
high-value user in this case it was a
user reacted to a large sell-off yeah I
think that you to your question what
we're doing is we're creating educated
hypotheses and in a lot of those cases
were predicting what people are going to
act like in this case these were
reactive people a lot of the time you
know it's it's people who buy cpg brands
on an ongoing basis so it's not as much
people who are you know dramatically
reacting to something but even in those
cases we're saying this is typically
where they are you know every 30 days
they buy the new shampoo on an ongoing
basis so we're going to predict that
that's sort of a B and that's where
they'll engage okay this one right here
just a good question and so obviously a
lot of your business is through
self-serve platform so is this a
planning tool that you guys are giving
to the traders or is it something that
they have to work with your team to do
the analysis you know it sounds pretty
like a lot of heavy lifting so sure so
it's a combination of the two so a lot
of the stuff that we saw there was
generated self service by the agency
partner a lot of the stuff came from
some data that they were pulling from
our platform we enable all transparency
all data comes out of our platform we
can pipe it into agency systems so
there's a combination of a lot of those
models were pulled directly from our
system others for data sources that we
plugged into that generated those models
okay this one right here say value sorry
hygiene yeah inventory quality we're
done I seen that said he's talking yeah
it's like it seems fine up here yes a
shower to the spa before this
presentation I cry right um so uh huh
we're doing a lot we have a combination
of steps that we take on our side to
block everything you know any non-human
audited traffic we block at the exchange
level there's a whole host of things
that we do to just not even see that
stuff prior to that we have a whole lot
of integrations of pre-bid partners is
that will verify or a couple to do all
of their blocking we also post bit
integrations to report on those things
and we have pretty aggressive terms with
all of our suppliers that we buy from
around not buying that stuff okay we're
out of time but thank you so much like
you guys okay we're going to come
back